# Getting Started With Kii Gateway

This tutrial irrustrtes how Kii Gateway works with the Converter program and Gateway manager Application.

- Gateway Converter Sample:
https://github.com/KiiPlatform/gwc-cli

- Gateway Manager Application Sample:
https://github.com/KiiPlatform/gwm-cli

## Installation
Please refer to [README] (../README.md) for Gateway Agent installation.

### gwc-cli installation
```shell
cd $GOPATH
cd src/github.com/KiiPlatform
git clone git@github.com:KiiPlatform/gwc-cli.git
cd gwc-cli.git
go get -t -d -v ./..
go build
```

### gwm-cli installation
```shell
cd $GOPATH
cd src/github.com/KiiPlatform
git clone git@github.com:KiiPlatform/gwm-cli.git
cd gwm-cli
go get -t -d -v ./..
go build
```

## Setup

### Gateway configuration.
```
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/KiiPlatform/gateway-agent
cp doc/config.yml .
```

Edit copied config.yml

`gateway` section:

We don't change this section in this tutorial.

Information in this section is stored in Kii Cloud and used to identify/ manage the
Gateway device.

`admin` section:

We don't change this section in this tutorial.

This section defines credentials to access the Gateway Agent local REST API.

`master_app` section:

Please replace the site, app\_id and app\_key with your application in Kii Cloud.
If you haven't created application in Kii Cloud, Please visit [Web Console](https://developer.kii.com)
and Create your application.
Value of site would be 'jp', 'us', 'cn3', 'sg', or 'eu' depending on the server location you've chosen when you create the application.

`sites` section:

We don't change this section in this tutorial.

This section is used for by developers who subscribed to Enterprise Plan.
It is used to define the private/ dedicated site location.

`store` section:

We don't change this section in this tutorial.

`local_server` section:

We don't change this section in this tutorial.

This section is used to configure address of local REST API endpoint.

`mqtt` section:

We don't change this section in this tutorial.

This section is used to configure address of MQTT endpoint.

### gwc-cli configuration.

```
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/KiiPlatform/gwc-cli
cp examples/config.yml .
```

Edit config.yml

`apps` section:

The dictionary of the apps.
You can put arbitrary name as key but in this tutorial we unify the key name as
'master'. Lets set same application which is configured in gateway-agent/config.yml

`gateway-address` section:

We don't change this section in this tutorial.

Should match with gateway-agent/config.yml mqtt section.

`keep-alive` section:

Defines keep-alive timer of MQTT connection.

The sample doesn't send ping message so let's set long value. (ex. 600)

In real application, you can set more realistic value to detect disconnection.
(ex. 30, 60 second etc.)

### gwm-cli configuration.
```
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/KiiPlatform/gwm-cli
cp examples/config.yml .
```

Edit config.yml

`apps` section:

Same as gwc-cli/config.yml. Please confgure your app as 'master' application.

`gateway-address` section:

We don't change this section in this tutorial.

Should match with gateway-agent/config.yml local\_server section.

Now, all configuration should have been done!

## Startup Gateway Agent

```shell
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/KiiPlatform/gateway-agent
./gwagent
```

## Setup Gateway using gwm-cli

```shell
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/KiiPlatform/gwm-cli
```

### Local authentication
Note: do not expose security credentials in your real service.

```shell
./gwm-cli auth --username admin_user --password admin_pass --app-name master
```

### Gateway onboarding
By this operation, Gateway information is sent to Kii Cloud and can be managed
thorugh the cloud.

```shell
./gwm-cli onboard-gateway --app-name master
```

### User login
Kii Gateway will be managed by the User in Kii Cloud called owner.
Only the owner can manage the Gateway,
so that it will be protected from malicious act.
Execute user sign-up/ login before owner registration.


Replace {username}/ {password} section.

If you haven't created User in Kii Cloud, it will create new user.
```shell
./gwm-cli user-login --username {username} --password {password} --app-name master
```

### Owner registration

Replace {gateway password} with the same string configured in thingPassword in gateway-agent/config.yml

```shell
./gwm-cli add-owner --gateway-password {gateway password} --app-name master
```

### End Node onboarding

#### Connect Converter using gwc-cli

```shell
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/KiiPlatform/gwc-cli
./gwc-cli -evid node1 -aname master
```

evid is vendorThingID of the device connected to the Gateway.
The ID is sent to Kii Cloud and used to identify the device in Kii Cloud.

By this command, Converte program establish the MQTT connection between the Gateway
And send ID of the device.
After the connection, state of 'node1' is marked as pending in the Gateway.
At this time, the device 'node1' haven't been managed in Kii Cloud.

#### Onboard connected device with gwm-cli
Let's go back to gwm-cli termial

```shell
./gwm-cli list-pending-nodes --app-name master
```

You'll see output like this:

```
2016/03/18 16:46:46 pending nodes: 
[map[vendorThingID:node1]]
```

This means device called 'node1' is waiting to be onboarded to the Kii Cloud.
Let's get thing done.

You can put passowrd of the node1 in --node-password option.

(Arbitrary value can be set, but don't forget it.)

This is also a protection for malicious act.

```shell
./gwm-cli onboard-node --node-vid node1 --node-password {node password} --app-name master
```

Now, both Gateway and connected Device are managed in cloud and ready to further operations!

## Send Command To the Device
On gwm-cli terminal

```shell
cp exampoes/command.json .
```

Open copied command.json with Text Editor.

`issuer` : used to identify who has published the Command.
The ID will be automatically repalced with the ID of the user currently login to the gwm-cli

`schema` / `schemaVersion` In this tutorial, no need to care those fields.

It will be used to define the structure of actions, state of devices, etc.

`actions` : Defines what kind of action is requested to the device.

In this tutorial, we use this command as it is.
(Since gwc-cli won't handles those actions and just print the recieved commands in the console)

```shell
./gwm-cli post-command --node-vid node1 --command-file command.json --app-name master
```

Check output in gwm-cli terminal.

You'll see the output like this.
```
received command: 
{"commandID":"22c910e0-ece0-11e5-89ca-22000ad9164c","issuer":"user:d009f7a00022-e4ab-5e11-e44e-0b0dcf9e","actions":[{"turnPower":{"power":true}}],"schema":"SmartLightDemo","schemaVersion":1}
```

Also the gwc-cli stores command in ./commands directory.

If you don't see output or files in the directory,
Likely the gwc-cli is disconnected.
Try shutdown the program and restart it.

```
./gwc-cli -evid node1 -aname master
```

## Retrun Command Result from the device.
On gwc-cli terminal

```shell
cp examples/commandResult.json .
```

Edit copied commandResult.json and replace the commandID with the recieved command ID.

Up gwc-cli and choose 2.
